In classical economics, any productive economic activity draws from (up to) three types of inputs. These are:
Labor: Human effort. The time and mental/physical resources devoted to production by a worker. (Note that labor comes in both varying quantity and varying quality. A worker who works for 2 days can produce more than one who works for just 1 day, and 2 workers can produce more in a day than 1 worker can, but a highly skilled worker can also produce more in a day than an unskilled one.)
Capital: Artificial tools, machinery, and anything that is produced by humans and also used for further production. (Moreover, we often regard money as capital because it can essentially be converted into tools/machinery/etc on the market. The money itself doesn't contribute to production, it's what the money can buy that contributes to production.)
Land: The naturally occurring resources provided by nature, and the opportunity values provided by society. (While physical area on the Earth's surface is the traditional kind and still of great importance, in modern times there are many other kinds of 'land' that aren't of ths sort, so it may be less misleading to use a more general term like 'resources' or 'opportunities'.)
The value gained through the productive activity is also split up to pay for each of these inputs (usually in the form of abstract money these days, although in ancient times it might take another form, such as food). The payment to the worker for the input of labor is called 'wages', the payment to the investor for the input of capital is called 'profit', and the payment to the landowner for the input of land is called 'rent'. However, since the word 'rent' is used for other purposes as well, we more specifically talk about 'economic rent'.
permalinkparent
[–]avidiax 4 points 1 day ago 
Economic rent is any payment in excess of cost for a factor of production (land, labor, capital).
When you get an above minimum-wage job at McDonald's, you aren't collecting rent, since your wage is determined by a competitive market for your labor.
When you work as a union laborer, the payment you receive is held higher than a competitive market would allow, since union laborers are an artificially scarce resource. The extent to which your payment is higher is the 'rent'.
When you receive royalties on a patent you own, you are collecting rent. The patent is a privilege which has no on-going cost, making all of the payment received in excess of the cost in acquiring the patent a 'rent'.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economic_rent