---
layout: post
title:  "Security"
date:   2016-04-28 13:14:00 -0500
categories: security
description: "links and sources"
---



networking:

terms:

[station (STA), wireless client, node](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Station_(networking)): any device capable of using the 802.11 protocol

[service set](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Service_set_(802.11_network)): a set of all the devices associated with a 802.11 wireless local area network (WLAN)

basic service set (BSS): provides the basic building-block of an 802.11 wireless LAN. In infrastructure mode, a single access point (AP) together with all associated stations (STAs) is called a BSS

basic service set identification (BSSID): For a BSS operating in infrastructure mode, the BSSID is the MAC address of the wireless access point (WAP) generated by combining the 24 bit Organization Unique Identifier (OUI, the manufacturer's identity) and the manufacturer's assigned 24-bit identifier for the radio chipset in the WAP. The BSSID is the formal name of the BSS and is always associated with only one BSS. Note, the MAC address concept is not limited to radio communication, wired networks use the very same 24+24 bit MAC address concept to uniquely identify the hosts

(SSID): - a series of 0 to 32 octets. Each BSS or ESS is identified by a service set identifier. It is used as an identifier for a wireless LAN, and is intended to be unique for a particular area. Since this identifier must often be entered into devices manually by a human user, it is often a human-readable string and thus commonly called the "network name". A common, albeit incorrect assumption, is that an SSID is a string of human-readable characters (such as ASCII), terminated by a NUL character (as in a C-string). SSIDs must be treated and handled as what they are, a series of 0 to 32 octets, some of which may not be human-readable.

[wireless access point (WAP)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wireless_access_point): a networking hardware device that allows a Wi-Fi compliant device to connect to a wired network. ? the functionality that should be emphasized here is the bridge made between wireless and wired. the typical home/personal 'router' is usually a converged device that includes the WAP, a router, and, often, an Ethernet switch.

[wireless network interface controller](WNIC) (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wireless_network_interface_controller): a network interface controller which connects to a radio-based computer network rather than a wire-based network such as Token Ring or Ethernet. A WNIC, just like other NICs, works on the Layer 1 and Layer 2 of the OSI Model. A WNIC in a desktop computer usually is connected using the PCI bus

[NIC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_interface_controller): The network controller implements the electronic circuitry required to communicate using a specific physical layer and data link layer standard such as Ethernet, Fibre Channel, Wi-Fi or Token Ring. This provides a base for a full network protocol stack, allowing communication among small groups of computers on the same local area network (LAN) and large-scale network communications through routable protocols, such as Internet Protocol (IP). The NIC allows computers to communicate over a computer network, either by using cables or wirelessly. The NIC is both a physical layer and data link layer device, as it provides physical access to a networking medium and, for IEEE 802 and similar networks, provides a low-level addressing system through the use of MAC addresses that are uniquely assigned to network interfaces.


[Router](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Router_(computing)):

[network switch, switching hub, bridging hub, officially MAC bridge](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_switch)
network interface controller (NIC):

[Node](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Node_(networking)): a connection point, a redistribution point, or a communication endpoint

[media access control address (MAC address)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MAC_address): also called physical address, is a unique identifier assigned to network interfaces for communications on the physical network segment. MAC addresses are used as a network address for most IEEE 802 network technologies, including Ethernet and WiFi. Logically, MAC addresses are used in the media access control protocol sublayer of the OSI reference model. MAC addresses are most often assigned by the manufacturer of a network interface controller (NIC) and are stored in its hardware, such as the card's read-only memory or some other firmware mechanism

[Octet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Octet_(computing)): 8 bits. used when byte is ambiguous. can represent base 10 values of 0-255




Token Ring:

Ethernet:

OSI Model:

PCI bus:


cia triad
http://atom.smasher.org
assets and risk = threats * vulns
principle of least privilege
sensor network - denial of sleep

802.11
WEP, WPA, TKIP, WPA2, 802.11i, WPA2
WPA Enterprise RADIUS server
WPA Personal (WPA-PSK)
MAC addresses
MAC address filtering

symmetric encryption:
uses single shared key
DES, 3DES, AES
confidential online communication using ssl

asymmetric encryption:
also called public key encryption
uses pub and priv
RSA PGP
uses: key exchange and digital signatures


? Message Authentication Code (MAC) different from mac address ?

TODO: get software to perform symmetric encryption.
TODO: get software to perform asymmetric encryption.
